detective recap here today i'm going to
explain a crime mystery film called
seven spoilers ahead watch out and take
care
soon-to-be retiree detective lieutenant
william somerset is called to a crime
scene
where a wife shot her husband dead as
somerset investigates the place he asks
detective taylor if the couple's kid saw
the incident which surprises the
detective
taylor boldly tells somerset how happy
their colleagues will be once he retires
saying he always asks weird questions it
doesn't matter whether the kid has seen
it or not since his father is already
dead
while talking newly transferred
detective mills arrives and introduces
himself to somerset
though they're assigned to be partners
the two don't see each other eye to eye
especially with the younger mills
impatient and hot-headed personality
with seven days remaining until his
retirement somerset reminds mills that
he'll be the one calling the shots
between the two of them
somerset and mills officially start
working as partners on a rainy monday
the responding officer at the crime
scene tells them that nothing has been
touched adding that the victim has had
his face in a plate of spaghetti for 45
minutes already
confused mills asked the officer why the
victim's vital signs haven't been
checked and the irritated officer points
out that the victim is obviously dead
somerset and mills enter the victim's
filthy residence and inside they see
insects everywhere along with plenty of
canned spaghetti sauces on the shelf
the victim an extremely obese man sits
on a chair with his hands and feet bound
while his face buried in his food
under the table mill sees a bucket of
the victim's vomit somerset asks if
there's blood in it but mills replies
that he didn't see any
he then inquires if somerset thinks it's
poison but before somerset could answer
the examiner arrives while the doctor
examines the victim
somerset orders mills to help the
officers question the neighbors and
although he's clearly annoyed
mills complies in the morgue the coroner
tells somerset and mills that the victim
has been dead for a long time and it was
not because of poison
the corner tries explaining the cause of
death and putting it simply
somerset surmises the victim died from
eating until he burst
somerset then asks how the victim got
his bruises on his head but the coroner
tells him that he hasn't figured that
out yet
somerset assumes it was from a gun press
to his head which the coroner deems a
possibility if it was pushed hard enough
looking closely at the victim's head
mills announces that they have a case of
homicide
back at the station somerset mills and
the police captain talk about the
victim's death
somerset reads the autopsy report saying
the killer took his time in making the
victim suffer by forcing him to keep
eating
according to the findings it could have
gone on for 12 hours the victim's throat
was also swollen
likely from the strain and effort and
when he passed out the killer kicked him
making him burst and die when somerset
tells them that the killer's actions
could have a meaning
the captain dismisses his idea somerset
requests for reassignment
surprising both the captain and mills he
says he doesn't want that case to be his
last and that it's too soon for a young
detective like mills
however the captain rejects his request
since there's no one else to take the
case for them
with his ego hurt mills asks the captain
to just give him the case and let
somerset go but the captain rejects this
too
saying that he's putting mills on
something else on tuesday reporters
flock to the second crime scene
when mills arrives he finds the forensic
experts going through the place
with nothing to report yet mills
instructs the guys to have a break while
he examines the scene
he stands in the middle of the room
looking at the word greed written on the
floor in blood
on the office table he studies a woman's
photograph with circles drawn around her
eyes using blood
at the precinct the captain informed
somerset that criminal defense attorney
eli gold has been murdered
he reports that someone broke into the
attorney's apartment that morning bled
into death
and wrote the word greed on the floor
picking the detective's interest
the captain also says that mills is
leading the investigation and as they
talk
he tells somerset that he doesn't think
the detective is actually going to quit
before the captain goes he leaves
somerset a small glass containing tiny
pieces of plastic
which according to the corner were fed
to the first victim
somerset returns to the obese man's
house looking for any clue they might
have missed
sure enough he notices some drag marks
on the floor matching the plastic
material fed to the victim
somerset moves the refrigerator from its
place and he sees the word gluttony
written in greece on the wall along with
a note
he takes it back to the station and
gives it to their captain saying the
note is a line from milton's poem
parrot has lost the captain tells him
that he's confused so somerset explains
that there are seven deadly sins and
that the first two cases represent
gluttony and greed
the other five are sloth wrath pride
lust and envy
and he concludes that they can expect
five more cases like the other two
somerset then walks away and tells the
captain that he can't be involved in
them
to gain more insight into the cases
somerset goes to the library to read
books like dante aligiri's divine comedy
and jeffrey chaucer's canterbury tales
he makes a list of books for mills which
he believes might be useful for solving
this
meanwhile mills goes through the
evidence they have and learns that the
second victim was forced to mutilate
himself
as somerset finishes his research he
photocopies some pages from the books
and places them on mill's table
on wednesday mill's wife tracy calls the
station and invites somerset for dinner
at their apartment
while eating tracy asks somerset why he
isn't married and he answers that he was
once close to doing it but it never
happened
the three have a few laughs and after
dinner somerset and mill start reviewing
all the evidence they have
through the pictures and reports
somerset learns that eli gould was bound
with his right arm free and was forced
to take off a pound of flesh from his
body before it was placed on a scale
as they continue to go through the
evidence somerset concludes that the
killer is preaching saying the seven
deadly sins were used in medieval
sermons
he also adds that the murders are like
forced attrition where one regrets his
sins but not because he loves god
before he could forget gould's wife mill
shows her photo to somerset
saying she might have seen something
however somerset says that it may not be
about something she's seen
but something she's supposed to see but
hasn't been given a chance to get some
answers somerset and mills go to see mrs
gould
they give her photographs from the crime
scene asking if she can see anything
that is out of place
although she's upset and crying mrs
gould manages to point out that the
painting in one of the pictures is
upside down
wasting no time somerset and mills go to
eli gould's place to remove the said
painting from the wall
unfortunately they aren't able to find
anything from the painting which pisses
mills off
not about to give up yet somerset dust
the wall from where they took off the
painting and finds a set of fingerprints
in the lab the forensic analyst shows
somerset and mills that the fingerprints
from the wall spell the words help me
the analyst also tells the detectives
that they are definitely not the victims
but he reminds them that finding a match
for the print might take at least three
days
thursday comes and the detectives
finally get a match during their police
briefing
the captain tells everyone that their
suspect goes by the name of victor but
his real name is theodor allen
he says victor has a long history of
mental illness and has spent some time
in prison
however he was able to get out because
of his lawyer eli gould
as the captain mobilizes his men to get
victor summerset and mills doubt that
victor is their guy
somerset says that he believes the real
killer to have more purpose
at victor's place the cops find the
house filled with air freshener
in the bedroom a scraggly man covered
with wounds and bed sores is strapped to
the bed
and the word sloth is written on the
wall while everyone tries to make sense
of what they're seeing
mills finds a box with victor's stool
urine fingernail and hair sample
they also see victor's pictures inside
the box with one taken from a year ago
as if the scene isn't gruesome enough
victor suddenly gasps for air
making everyone jump out of their skin
victor is taken to the hospital
while somerset and mills stay behind to
talk about the killer as they do
a photographer suddenly shows up and
takes a photo of the two detectives
infuriated mills tells him to leave but
the photographer says he has a right to
be there
in response mills gets rid of him by
smashing his camera the photographer
leaves in anger
warning mills that he's got their
pictures mills taunts the photographer
by spelling his name for him and as he
turns to face somerset
he asks him how the photographers get
there so quickly somerset replies that
photographers pay police for information
and that they pay well
in the hospital the doctor tells
somerset and mills that victor has been
immobilized for a year
his blood test shows various drugs in
his system which includes an antibiotic
to keep the bedsores from infecting
unfortunately for the detectives victor
won't be able to speak since he chewed
off his tongue long ago
one night tracy calls somerset and asks
him to meet her the following day
on friday morning tracy and somerset
meet up at a diner and she tells him
that she's pregnant
surprised somerset suggests that he's
unsure if he's the right person to talk
to about it
tracy tells him that she hates their
city and somerset shares with her how he
got his girlfriend pregnant a long time
ago
he recounts how scared he was to raise a
baby at that time so he told his
girlfriend that he didn't want it until
he eventually wore her down
somerset advises tracy that if she's not
keeping her baby then she shouldn't tell
mills that she's pregnant
however he adds that if she decides to
keep the baby then she should spoil the
kid every chance she gets
tracy then thanks somerset before he
goes back to the precinct back at the
station
somerset and mills learned that there
was an envelope of cash in victor's
office mailbox the first of every month
according to the landlord victor has
never complained about anything and no
one has ever complained about him either
mills gets impatient asking why they're
waiting for the killer to strike again
instead of looking for him
somerset once again analyzes the
evidence they have observing that the
killer has to be methodical and very
patient to sever victor's hand
plant his fingerprints at the crime
scene all while keeping him bound for a
whole year
but to mills the killer is just some
crazy man who happens to have a library
card
somerset then gets the idea of going to
the library to make a list of books
related to the seven deadly sins
trying to figure out what books the
killer finds interesting after making
the list somerset and mills eat at a
pizza parlor where they meet a man who
discreetly takes the list and some cash
from somerset
before the man leaves he tells them to
meet him in an hour since he's not in
the know about who the man is
mill sulks and that's when somerset
tells him that that man is his friend
from the bureau
somerset says the fbi has been hooked
into the library system to monitor
reading habits
he then adds that some books are flagged
and if anyone checks out a flag book
he'll have his library records fed into
the fbi's computers best of all
it's not possible to get a library card
without an id and a current phone bill
so if they want to know who's reading
books like purgatory or paradise lost
the fbi computers will tell them after
an hour
the man from the bureau meets up with
them at a barbershop and hands them a
list of books that a certain jonathan
doe has checked out
somerset and mills go to his place and
knock on his door but there is no answer
suddenly a man arrives on the other end
of the hallway and starts shooting at
them
mills goes after him injuring himself in
the process as he chases the guy in a
narrow street
mills decides to search a truck thinking
the suspect might be there
while doing so the man hiding on top of
the truck hits mills in the head with a
tire iron
leaving him defenseless as mills tries
to crawl and reach for his gun
the suspect gets to it first and points
it to his head and while somerset almost
catches them the man gets to run away
once more
somerset and mills go back to the
suspect's apartment and mills intends to
enter his place without a warrant
somerset tries reasoning that they need
a probable cause first he stresses that
they need a reason to knock on that door
to get a warrant but being injured and
impatient
mills just kicks the door open with some
cash the two detectives pay a woman to
be their witness
instructing her to tell the cops that
the man from that apartment kept going
out during the time of the murders
prompting her to call somerset now that
they're free to search the suspect's
place
somerset and mills go inside his
apartment and find dozens of evidence
linking him to killings
including cans of spaghetti sauce and
victor severed hand in one of the rooms
mills finds photographs of the killer's
victims
while in another one somerset finds a
notebook with details about the seven
deadly sins
in the bathroom mills finds his
photographs and calls somerset saying
john doe the killer is the photographer
from the third victim staircase days ago
as everyone is looking for more evidence
the phone in john doe's house starts
ringing and mills answers it
he tells mills that he admires the
detectives saying he doesn't know how
they were able to find him
he then comments that he needs to
readjust his schedule due to the day's
setback
while they talk somerset records their
conversation and the killer tells mills
that he feels like he should be saying
more but he doesn't want to ruin the
surprise before ending the call
when somerset and mills return to
reviewing their newly acquired evidence
they wonder who the blonde woman is in
one of john doe's photos
on saturday somerset and mills use a
receipt from jondo's house which leads
them to a leather repair and restoration
shop
the owner shows them what john has
ordered and they suddenly receive a call
from the cops
reporting that the blonde from the
picture has been found they find her
dead in a small hotel
violated with a custom-made blade strap
on by a man who claims an armed guy
forced him to do it
the following day is a sunday and jondo
calls 9-1-1
confessing that he's done it again
somerset and mills go to the crime scene
where they find a dead woman on the bed
with a bottle of sleeping pills glued to
one hand and a telephone glued to the
other
the woman's face was mutilated and
bandaged and the word pride is written
on the wall
somerset believes that the killer made
her choose between calling for help and
living with a disfigured face or killing
herself
evidently the woman chose the latter
option embodying the sin of pride
at the station john doe suddenly
surrenders himself while still wearing a
bloody shirt
his fingers are also bloody since he's
been removing the skin on them to avoid
leaving his fingerprints anywhere
according to john doe's lawyer he has
two more bodies hidden away
he wants to take somerset and mills just
the two of them to the location where
he's buried the bodies at six o'clock
that day
he also says that if the detectives do
not accept the offer then those bodies
will never be found and that he will
plead insanity
however if they comply he will
immediately sign a full confession and
plead guilty
despite their initial reluctance they
agree to the given terms
wearing a wire to record their
conversation somerset and mill's ride
with john to the secret location of the
dead bodies
during the ride john shows no remorse
for his crimes saying he's setting an
example and that his victims were not
innocent people
he also adds that mel should be thanking
him since he will be remembered after
that case
with a chopper following them somerset
and mills continue taking john to the
deserted location where he claims to
have buried his victims
suddenly a van arrives and while mills
points a gun at john's head to keep him
in place
somerset runs to the road to check where
the driver is as soon as he stops the
van
somerset demands the driver to step out
and the driver tells him that he has a
package for mills
the driver says some guy paid him to
deliver the package there at precisely
seven o'clock
somerset takes the box and tells the
driver to leave on foot and when he
opens the package
he is horrified by what's inside
somerset then yells to mills to step
away from john
as mills is trying to listen to somerset
john tells him how much he admires tracy
he says he visited mill's house that
morning and took tracy's head as a
souvenir because he envies mill's normal
life
while john is provoking mills somerset
finally gets to where they are and asks
mills to get rid of his gun
unfazed mills demands somerset to tell
him what's in the box and somerset tells
mills that jon wants to be killed by
him still jon continues to goad mills
saying that tracy begged for her life
and her babies
shocking mill since he doesn't know
about her pregnancy with tears in his
eyes
mill shoots john in the head finally
john's self-proclaimed masterpiece comes
into completion with mills representing
wrath while john himself represents envy
mills is then taken into custody and as
the captain asks somerset where he's
going to be
he replies that he'll be around somerset
leaves and he thinks back to ernest
hemingway's words the world is a fine
place and worth fighting for
somerset agrees with the second part
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications and leave a like
it really helps the channel out
thank you for watching